I often put it off until later.
So I come home in the evening tired,
and I like to relax.
Well, very often,
I was tired for many different reasons,
and that is why I didn’t have the motivation
even to start Bible reading
in the first place.
I also had many phases
where it was really tough
to stick it out with Bible reading.
Especially in the age of social media,
there are many other things
you can fill your day with.
One hobby that mainly got in the way
was watching movies.
I really spent a lot of time on that.
This often steals precious time
you could have made better use of.
So something that moved me
was the thought that through Bible reading,
you’re actually talking with Jehovah.
You pray to him, and he
is then answering you through the Bible.
As Jehovah promised, he can give us
both the power and the desire to act.
I just pray to Jehovah, please,
to first give me the power to read
and then the desire follows.
Then I decided
to simply start and stick with it.
I started with reading my favorite book,
and that way it was easier for me.
Well, I started with Genesis
just to get through the whole Bible.
My favorite Bible book is Esther.
And because I think
she was a very special person,
it was especially then that I could imagine
what her situation was like
and what kind of a person she was
and I could see myself in the account.
The weekly Bible reading program
has been such a guideline.
It’s motivating since we discuss
this content at the meetings,
and I could use the study aids
in our workbook too.
You can better relate
to the brothers’ and sisters’ comments
because you’ve read the material yourself,
and I can comment too.
When I’m reading the Bible
in the JW Library app on my phone,
there is, of course,
the risk that it vibrates,
and I get a message.
And then, of course, you have the urge
to check to see who just wrote me.
For me personally, then, it’s really helpful
when I put my phone in airplane mode
so that I can really focus
on what I’m reading
and nothing can distract me.
I like reading at home,
but I also like to do it outdoors
because I think that’s
where you’re closest to Jehovah.
I never just read about the events
that are described in the Bible,
but I ask myself questions like:
‘Why did Jehovah have this written down?
What is in there for me personally?’
This helps me to stay focused
and not just scratch the surface;
otherwise, my mind
would immediately start wandering.
At a convention,
I learned something that helps me
to really take in the things I read.
The point discussed
was to remember to look
in four different directions
when meditating, so to speak.
First, look upwards
to find out exactly what I am learning
from the text about Jehovah;
then downwards to find out
what it teaches me about his purpose,
about what he wants for the earth;
then look at myself,
how I can personally benefit now;
and eventually towards others,
thinking about how I can help other people
with this particular Bible text.
In the JW Library app, there are
four different colors for highlighting text,
so I simply use a different color
for each of the four directions
and highlight them
on my tablet or smartphone.
For example, one of my hobbies is drawing.
I decided, one time,
that I was going to draw
the spiritual suit of armor,
all of its different parts
and their symbolic meanings.
And this especially helped me
to actually see the benefit of it,
to see how many wonderful resources
Jehovah provides us with
and that he never leaves us alone.
Another thing
I like very much is the category
“Bible Study Activities”
where you can directly pick a topic
that you personally find interesting
and then read that.
It’s Jehovah’s Word.
I love him and also want
to please him, of course.
That’s why it’s very important
to understand his Word.
It feels really good when you’ve understood
a difficult phrase by doing it this way.
It actually makes you feel
like you’ve achieved something,
and this brings you a lot closer to Jehovah.
It happens often that you don’t even know
what you should pray about
or what you could thank Jehovah for.
My personal Bible reading
has helped me with this a lot
because now I know exactly
what I want to tell Jehovah.
Daily Bible reading is very important to me
as it gives me some sort
of inner balance when I face situations
that may be unfamiliar or shake me up.
I know that no matter what the problem is,
Jehovah always has the right answer prepared.
At the beginning, it is really hard.
You have to fight to keep it up,
and you definitely need discipline.
But after a while,
you truly start to enjoy it
and it gets easier and easier
and you’re happy
that you started in the first place.
I really think that when Jehovah sees
how much effort you put into it,
he is genuinely proud of you,
and that’s the best thing
that can happen to you.